My motivation for learning high-performance computing is to gain real world skill that I would be able to use on my job. I have used William and Mary’s HPCs before (I think) with a lot of help, so I would like to be able to branch out of that. I also believe that knowing and using HCPs will be the future of data science, because this field is unique in that there are two ways to progress the field, one being to create a faster – smarter algorithm or increase computing power. So, knowing how to handle both is very important. 

I have three goals for the course. The first being is to learn how HCPs work, in that how to diagnose my problem and be able to decide how much RAM GPU CPU I need for the solution. I would also like to learn how to make my scripts into multi thread algorithms. The second goal I have is to complete a project with HCPs. I am reading a lot of graph neural network papers, and I would love to be able to complete my own project or research. My last goal, which was created during this project is to become more fluent in bash. 

My plan of attack for this semester is different. Previous semesters I had a lot of liberal arts classes; this semester it is purely stem. This leads to a large difference in my focus, now I need to be constantly working and on top of my work – especially with my attention split between classes and launch my app (you should check out Crawllr). However, my learning process has remained constant throughout – try and fail, try again (then turn to AI for guidance). I do really appreciate you putting due dates + and quizzes on blackboard so I can pull it on my calendar. Although having a google drive as the classroom has been weird so far – but I am getting used to it!

My folder structure is good for reproducible code for many reasons. The first is that we contain the raw data, before any modifications – I should not that this folder will not just contain one file, but timestamped files of each time the underlying data has been updated or changed. This way we always have an accurate record of what we have used, which will be helpful for going back through the notes (a different folder) and correlating to updated data, so viewers can go back and use exactly the data I used. The second part is the Python folder; this will contain all code relating to cleaning and processing data – maybe in the future I will add multiple sub folders for these depending on how much code is written. The last folder is for the finished product and conclusions. That way if someone only wants to see the result it will be very easy to find. Overall, the file structure should be very easy as anyone will be able to follow the pipeline of steps I did, while tracking my own observations and thoughts all the way until they achieve the same results. 

My personal understanding of why we using documented code is because it follows from the idea of peer reviewed and replicable studies. If one cannot easily reproduce the study, it hampers the validity of the paper. Also, I am starting to get into research and a sticking point with many of my conversations is how poor out current system is for reproduceable code.

Quick about me, my favorite flavor of ice-cream is coffee-Oreo. My favorite color of fruit is yellow. I am a big proponent of cumin belonging in the top 5 spices. I like to play disc-golf. I am starting to get really interested in the power and capabilities of GNNs. You should download Crawllr (mind the spelling). I am always willing to learn or try or give a helping hand if you need anything from me. 

